-- EDITOR CHANGES FOLLOW
INSERT OR REPLACE INTO high_yield_qa (id, topic, passage, answer, explanation) VALUES (6, 'Craft & Structure', 'The shift from paper charting to digital EHRs was not without growing pains. Initially, nurses found the software interfaces cumbersome, leading to slower documentation times. Yet, after six months of dedicated training, documentation speed improved by 20%, and error rates dropped significantly.', 'Cautiously optimistic', 'Point of view on the TEAS 7 is expressed as an adjective describing the author''s attitude or stance, not a summary of their argument. The author acknowledges the negative ("growing pains") but emphasizes the positive outcome ("error rates dropped significantly"), making their attitude "cautiously optimistic." Avoid answer choices that are complete sentences stating what the author believes; POV answers are typically short adjective phrases.');
INSERT OR REPLACE INTO high_yield_qa (id, topic, passage, answer, explanation) VALUES (5, 'Craft & Structure', 'The shift from paper charting to digital EHRs was not without growing pains. Initially, nurses found the software interfaces cumbersome, leading to slower documentation times. Yet, after six months of dedicated training, documentation speed improved by 20%, and error rates dropped significantly.', 'Problem-Solution', 'While it contains cause-effect elements (training caused improvement), the overarching structure is Problem-Solution because the passage is organized around identifying an obstacle and describing how it was addressed, not merely explaining why something happened. The focus is on overcoming the difficulty, not on the causal mechanism itself.');
INSERT OR REPLACE INTO high_yield_qa (id, topic, passage, answer, explanation) VALUES (23, 'Key Ideas & Details', 'Handwashing remains the cornerstone of infection control. It is simple, cost-effective, and saves lives. Every healthcare worker must comply with hand hygiene protocols.', 'Handwashing is the most important thing a healthcare worker can do.', 'This is a pure value judgment because it ranks handwashing above all other duties (assessing patients, administering medications, etc.), which cannot be empirically proven. Note: "Handwashing is the cornerstone of infection control" is a gray area on standardized tests; while "cornerstone" is metaphorical, the underlying claim that handwashing is foundational to infection control is empirically verifiable. TEAS 7 answer choices that are clearly opinions typically make subjective claims about relative importance or value that cannot be measured.');
INSERT OR REPLACE INTO misconceptions (id, body_system, topic, misconception, correct_explanation, common_wrong_answer, why_students_err, teas_relevance, source) VALUES (2, 'N/A', 'Craft & Structure', 'Figurative language is only used in literature and poetry, not in scientific or medical texts.', 'Figurative language is a pervasive cognitive tool used in science and medicine to explain abstract or invisible processes. Metaphors (e.g., "immune system defense"), similes (e.g., "cell division is like a choreographed dance"), and personification are essential to scientific communication and patient education.', 'Assuming a description of a disease is purely literal and failing to identify the metaphorical comparison being made to explain a mechanism.', 'Curriculum tracking often segregates "literary devices" into English classes and "facts" into science classes, creating artificial boundaries in students'' schema.', 'TEAS 7 science-adjacent reading passages frequently use analogies and metaphors to describe pathophysiology or anatomy.', 'Archer Review TEAS 7 Overview; Lakoff & Johnson, "Metaphors We Live By" (1980); Gibbons, P. (2002). Scaffolding Language, Scaffolding Learning. Heinemann.');
INSERT OR REPLACE INTO misconceptions (id, body_system, topic, misconception, correct_explanation, common_wrong_answer, why_students_err, teas_relevance, source) VALUES (4, 'N/A', 'Craft & Structure', 'Transition words always reliably indicate a single, specific text structure (e.g., "similarly" always means compare/contrast).', 'While transition words are strong clues, they must be analyzed in context. "Similarly" might indicate a comparison, but it could also signal an analogy within a cause-effect passage. Furthermore, the absence of transition words does not mean a structure isn''t present; relationships can be implied through semantic parallels.', 'Identifying a passage as Compare/Contrast simply because the word "however" appears once, ignoring that 90% of the passage is a sequential Problem/Solution structure.', 'Rote memorization of signal word lists without instruction on how those words function within broader rhetorical contexts.', 'TEAS 7 answer choices often include structural distractors based on single signal words, testing holistic structural analysis over keyword hunting.', 'ATI TEAS 7 Study Manual (2022); Meyer, B. J. (1975). "The Organization of Prose and Its Effects on Memory." Journal of Educational Psychology.');
INSERT OR REPLACE INTO misconceptions (id, body_system, topic, misconception, correct_explanation, common_wrong_answer, why_students_err, teas_relevance, source) VALUES (7, 'N/A', 'Integration of Knowledge & Ideas', 'When comparing two passages on the same topic, if they disagree, one must be completely right and the other completely wrong.', 'Dual passages often present complementary or partially overlapping perspectives. Passage A might focus on the short-term efficacy of a treatment, while Passage B focuses on its long-term side effects. Both can be factually accurate but emphasize different variables or criteria for evaluation.', 'Stating that Passage B completely disproves Passage A, when Passage B actually just provides additional, contrasting nuances.', 'Dichotomous thinking (black-and-white reasoning) drives students to force a "winner/loser" dynamic onto complex, multi-faceted informational texts.', 'TEAS 7 dual-passage sets frequently use this "different criteria" trap to test nuanced synthesis.', 'Archer Review TEAS 7 Overview; Perfetti, C. A., et al. (1999). "Sources of Comprehension Failure." Scientific Studies of Reading.');
INSERT INTO misconceptions (body_system, topic, misconception, correct_explanation, common_wrong_answer, why_students_err, teas_relevance, source) VALUES ('N/A', 'Key Ideas & Details', 'Students can answer chart, graph, or table questions by reading only the surrounding text without examining the visual itself.', 'Visual literacy questions require direct engagement with the visual element. The passage text may provide context or a general summary, but the specific data points, trends, and comparisons needed to answer the question are found in the visual. Students must read titles, axis labels, legends, and units before interpreting the data.', 'Selecting an answer that paraphrases the introductory text about a graph without actually checking if the graph''s data supports that claim.', 'Students are accustomed to text-based reading comprehension and treat visuals as decorative or supplementary rather than as primary information sources requiring active decoding.', 'TEAS 7 explicitly includes 3-5 visual literacy questions per exam, requiring interpretation of line graphs, bar charts, pie charts, tables, and occasionally maps with healthcare data.', 'ATI TEAS 7 Study Manual (2022); National Center for Education Statistics, "NAEP Reading Assessment" framework.');
INSERT INTO misconceptions (body_system, topic, misconception, correct_explanation, common_wrong_answer, why_students_err, teas_relevance, source) VALUES ('N/A', 'Key Ideas & Details', 'If students understand the overall goal of a procedure, they don''t need to track the specific sequence of steps.', 'Multi-step procedural directions require tracking exact order and conditional language. Steps that seem interchangeable may have critical sequence dependencies (e.g., in sterile procedures, order determines contamination risk). Additionally, conditional language ("if...then," "unless," "only after") creates branching logic that must be followed precisely.', 'Performing steps out of order because they seem logically equivalent, or ignoring a conditional clause like "only if the indicator turns red."', 'Students prioritize conceptual understanding over procedural precision. In everyday life, procedures often tolerate flexibility, but standardized test questions are deliberately designed to penalize sequence errors.', 'TEAS 7 includes specific questions testing procedural reading, often using medical or laboratory protocols where step order is critical for safety or validity.', 'ATI TEAS 7 Study Manual (2022); Duke & Pearson, "Effective Practices for Developing Reading Comprehension" (2002).');
INSERT INTO misconceptions (body_system, topic, misconception, correct_explanation, common_wrong_answer, why_students_err, teas_relevance, source) VALUES ('N/A', 'Craft & Structure', 'If students don''t recognize a word, they must rely entirely on surrounding sentences rather than breaking down the word''s morphological parts.', 'TEAS 7 vocabulary questions sometimes test structural analysis of word parts (prefixes, suffixes, roots) rather than context clues. Medical terminology is built from Greek and Latin morphemes with consistent meanings (e.g., "hyper-" = excessive, "-itis" = inflammation, "cardio-" = heart). When context is insufficient, morphological breakdown is the primary strategy.', 'Guessing a word''s meaning from context alone when the word is a technical term with transparent morphology that the student could have decoded.', 'K-12 vocabulary instruction heavily emphasizes context clues and often neglects systematic morphological instruction, especially for Greek/Latin scientific terminology.', 'TEAS 7 specifically tests medical terminology knowledge, and many correct answers can only be reached by recognizing common prefixes, suffixes, and roots rather than inferring from surrounding text.', 'ATI TEAS 7 Study Manual (2022); Nagy & Anderson, "How Many Words Do They Know?" in Vocabulary Acquisition (1984).');
INSERT INTO misconceptions (body_system, topic, misconception, correct_explanation, common_wrong_answer, why_students_err, teas_relevance, source) VALUES ('N/A', 'Craft & Structure', 'Tone and mood are interchangeable terms that both describe how the reader feels while reading.', 'Tone refers to the author''s attitude or emotional stance toward the subject (e.g., critical, admiring, skeptical, impassioned). Mood refers to the feeling or atmosphere evoked in the reader (e.g., somber, hopeful, tense, eerie). A passage can have a critical tone but evoke a tense mood, or an admiring tone that creates an uplifting mood. They are related but distinct concepts.', 'Selecting "somber" as the tone when the question asks about the author''s attitude, but "somber" actually describes the mood/atmosphere the reader experiences.', 'The terms are often taught together without clear differentiation, and in casual conversation people use them interchangeably. Students also struggle because both are described using emotion words.', 'TEAS 7 tests tone and mood as separate concepts, often using answer choices that include both tone words and mood words as distractors to test whether students can distinguish the author''s attitude from the reader''s experience.', 'Khan Academy Reading Comprehension; Common Core State Standards for ELA, Craft and Structure strand.');
INSERT INTO misconceptions (body_system, topic, misconception, correct_explanation, common_wrong_answer, why_students_err, teas_relevance, source) VALUES ('N/A', 'Craft & Structure', 'Author''s purpose and point of view are the same concept, leading students to select "to persuade" when asked for POV or "critical" when asked for purpose.', 'Author''s purpose answers WHY the author wrote the passage and is expressed as an infinitive verb phrase (to inform, to persuade, to entertain, to explain). Point of view describes the author''s attitude or stance toward the topic and is expressed as an adjective or short descriptive phrase (critical, cautiously optimistic, biased, objective). These are different questions requiring different answer formats.', 'Selecting "to persuade" as the point of view, or selecting "favorable" as the purpose.', 'Both concepts relate to the author''s position, and students don''t learn the grammatical pattern that distinguishes them (verbs vs. adjectives). TEAS 7 answer choices exploit this by including cross-category distractors.', 'TEAS 7 deliberately tests whether students can distinguish these categories. Answer choices for purpose questions will include adjective distractors, and POV questions will include verb distractors.', 'Archer Review TEAS 7 Overview; ATI TEAS 7 Study Manual (2022).');
INSERT INTO misconceptions (body_system, topic, misconception, correct_explanation, common_wrong_answer, why_students_err, teas_relevance, source) VALUES ('N/A', 'Integration of Knowledge & Ideas', 'All .edu and .gov sources are automatically credible, and all .com sources are automatically biased, without examining authorship or methodology.', 'Domain extensions provide minimal information about credibility. A .edu site might host an unpublished student paper with no peer review, while a .com site might be a respected medical news organization with editorial standards. Credibility must be evaluated based on author credentials, institutional affiliation, evidence citation, peer review status, and potential conflicts of interest—not the URL alone.', 'Ranking a .edu student blog post as more credible than a .com article written by a licensed physician and citing peer-reviewed research.', 'Simplified "digital literacy" lessons in earlier education overemphasize domain tricks as shortcuts, creating a heuristic that fails when confronted with nuanced source evaluation.', 'TEAS 7 source credibility questions test whether students can evaluate actual evidence of reliability rather than relying on superficial markers like domain extensions or website appearance.', 'Metzger, "Making Sense of Credibility on the Web" (2007); Wineburg, "Historical Thinking and Other Unnatural Acts" (2001).');