-- EDITOR CHANGES FOLLOW
INSERT OR REPLACE INTO misconceptions (id, body_system, topic, misconception, correct_explanation, common_wrong_answer, why_students_err, teas_relevance, source) VALUES (9, 'Biology', 'Ecology', 'Because there are fewer top predators (like wolves) in an ecosystem, they require less total energy than the lower trophic levels (like plants).', 'Top predators actually have the least amount of energy available to them. Because only about 10% of energy is transferred from one trophic level to the next (with 90% lost as heat), there is simply not enough energy left at the top of the pyramid to support a large population of predators.', 'Selecting "the tertiary consumer level has the highest available energy" on a trophic level energy diagram.', 'Students confuse biomass/numbers with cumulative energy required. They see a small number of predators and assume a small energy footprint.', 'TEAS 7 ecology questions frequently require interpreting energy pyramids and applying the 10% rule.', 'Smith, T. M., & Smith, R. L. (2015). Elements of Ecology (9th ed.). Pearson.');
INSERT OR REPLACE INTO high_yield_qa (id, body_system, question, answer, explanation) VALUES (9, 'Anatomy & Physiology', 'Which layer of the skin contains sweat glands, hair follicles, and blood vessels?', 'Dermis', 'The dermis is the thick, inner layer of skin composed of dense irregular connective tissue. It houses all the functional structures of the skin (glands, follicles, vessels). The epidermis is the thin outer layer of keratinized epithelial cells, and the hypodermis is deep subcutaneous fat.');
INSERT OR REPLACE INTO high_yield_qa (id, body_system, question, answer, explanation) VALUES (2, 'Anatomy & Physiology', 'A researcher observes a tissue sample under a microscope and notes that it is avascular, contains tightly packed cells, and is found lining the digestive tract. Which tissue type is this?', 'Epithelial tissue', 'Epithelial tissue is characterized by tightly packed cells, lack of blood vessels (avascular), and functions as a lining or covering (such as the digestive tract lining). Connective tissue varies in vascularization (though much of it is highly vascular), muscle tissue is specialized for contraction, and nervous tissue is for electrochemical signaling.');
INSERT OR REPLACE INTO high_yield_qa (id, body_system, question, answer, explanation) VALUES (3, 'Anatomy & Physiology', 'During a reflex arc, in what correct order do the signals travel?', 'Receptor → Afferent neuron → Interneuron → Efferent neuron → Effector', 'A sensory receptor detects a stimulus and sends the signal via an afferent (sensory) neuron to the CNS. An interneuron in the spinal cord processes the information and synapses with an efferent (motor) neuron, which carries the signal to an effector (like a muscle) to generate a response. Note that this is the sequence for a polysynaptic reflex arc; simple monosynaptic reflexes (like the knee-jerk reflex) bypass the interneuron entirely.');
INSERT OR REPLACE INTO misconceptions (id, body_system, topic, misconception, correct_explanation, common_wrong_answer, why_students_err, teas_relevance, source) VALUES (6, 'Biology', 'Cell division', 'Mitosis produces four genetically unique, haploid cells used for sexual reproduction.', 'Mitosis produces two genetically identical, diploid (2n) daughter cells used for growth and tissue repair. It is meiosis that produces four genetically unique, haploid (n) cells (gametes) for sexual reproduction.', 'Selecting "mitosis" when asked which process creates sperm and egg cells.', 'Students blend the distinct vocabularies of the two cell division processes, associating "division" broadly with reproduction without separating somatic from gametic pathways.', 'Directly comparing the outcomes (diploid/haploid, identical/unique) of mitosis and meiosis is a high-frequency TEAS 7 testing objective.', 'Urry, L. A., Cain, M. L., Wasserman, S. A., Minorsky, P. V., & Orr, R. B. (2020). Campbell Biology (12th ed.). Pearson.');
INSERT OR REPLACE INTO misconceptions (id, body_system, topic, misconception, correct_explanation, common_wrong_answer, why_students_err, teas_relevance, source) VALUES (8, 'Biology', 'DNA structure and replication', 'DNA polymerase can synthesize new DNA strands in both the 5'' to 3'' and 3'' to 5'' directions smoothly.', 'DNA polymerase can only add nucleotides to the 3'' end of a growing strand, meaning it synthesizes exclusively in the 5'' to 3'' direction. Because the two strands of DNA are antiparallel, the lagging strand is synthesized discontinuously in short segments called Okazaki fragments.', 'Stating that the lagging strand is synthesized continuously toward the replication fork.', 'Students struggle with the spatial, antiparallel nature of DNA and assume an enzyme works symmetrically on both template strands.', 'The TEAS 7 tests the directionality of DNA replication and the specific mechanism of the lagging strand.', 'Lehninger, A. L., Nelson, D. L., & Cox, M. M. (2017). Lehninger Principles of Biochemistry (7th ed.). W.H. Freeman.');
INSERT OR REPLACE INTO misconceptions (id, body_system, topic, misconception, correct_explanation, common_wrong_answer, why_students_err, teas_relevance, source) VALUES (15, 'Chemistry', 'States of matter and phase changes', 'When water is boiling at 100°C, adding more heat will continuously increase the temperature of the liquid water.', 'During a phase change (like liquid to gas at the boiling point), the temperature remains constant. The added heat energy is used to break the intermolecular hydrogen bonds holding the liquid together (latent heat of vaporization), not to increase kinetic energy (which manifests as temperature).', 'Choosing a graph line that shows a steep, continuous upward slope through the boiling point instead of a flat plateau.', 'Students rely on the everyday intuition that "heating something makes it hotter," failing to separate the concepts of thermal energy from potential energy during phase transitions.', 'Interpreting heating curves and identifying phase change plateaus is a highly tested visual-data skill on the TEAS 7.', 'Khan Academy. (n.d.). Phase diagrams. Retrieved from https://www.khanacademy.org/science');
INSERT OR REPLACE INTO misconceptions (id, body_system, topic, misconception, correct_explanation, common_wrong_answer, why_students_err, teas_relevance, source) VALUES (18, 'Scientific Reasoning', 'Experimental design', 'The dependent variable is the factor that the scientist actively changes or manipulates in an experiment.', 'The independent variable is the factor manipulated by the researcher. The dependent variable is the outcome or the data that is measured; it "depends" on the changes made to the independent variable.', 'Identifying the dosage of a drug administered by the researcher as the "dependent variable."', 'The word "dependent" makes students think of the variable that the experiment''s outcome depends on, confusing cause and effect.', 'Nearly every Scientific Reasoning passage on the TEAS 7 requires identifying the independent and dependent variables within the context of a nursing or health scenario.', 'National Research Council. (2012). A Framework for K-12 Science Education. National Academies Press.');
INSERT INTO misconceptions (body_system, topic, misconception, correct_explanation, common_wrong_answer, why_students_err, teas_relevance, source) VALUES ('Biology', 'Macromolecules', 'Amino acids are the building blocks (monomers) of carbohydrates, and nucleotides are the building blocks of lipids.', 'Amino acids are the monomers of proteins, not carbohydrates. The monomers of carbohydrates are monosaccharides (simple sugars like glucose). Nucleotides are the monomers of nucleic acids (DNA and RNA). Lipids are not true polymers and do not have repeating monomer units; they are made of glycerol and fatty acids.', 'Selecting "amino acids" when asked to identify the monomer of carbohydrates.', 'Students memorize that there are four macromolecules and four types of monomers but fail to correctly pair them, often matching based on word familiarity rather than biochemical accuracy.', 'TEAS 7 consistently tests the ability to match monomers to their correct polymers and to identify the primary functions of each macromolecule type.', 'Urry, L. A., Cain, M. L., Wasserman, S. A., Minorsky, P. V., & Orr, R. B. (2020). Campbell Biology (12th ed.). Pearson.');
INSERT INTO misconceptions (body_system, topic, misconception, correct_explanation, common_wrong_answer, why_students_err, teas_relevance, source) VALUES ('Anatomy & Physiology', 'Blood typing and compatibility', 'A person with Type AB blood can donate blood to a person with Type A blood because AB contains the A antigen.', 'Type AB individuals are universal recipients, not universal donors. They can receive blood from types A, B, AB, and O because they have both A and B antigens on their red blood cells and no anti-A or anti-B antibodies in their plasma. However, they can only donate to other Type AB individuals. Type O negative is the universal donor.', 'Selecting "Type AB" when asked which blood type can be safely donated to a Type A patient.', 'Students confuse the concepts of antigens (on the red blood cell) and antibodies (in the plasma). They incorrectly assume that having an antigen means you can safely give it to anyone who also has that antigen, ignoring the antibody-mediated rejection that occurs.', 'Blood typing and transfusion compatibility is a high-yield TEAS 7 topic with direct clinical relevance to nursing.', 'Marieb, E. N., & Hoehn, K. (2019). Human Anatomy & Physiology (11th ed.). Pearson.');
INSERT INTO misconceptions (body_system, topic, misconception, correct_explanation, common_wrong_answer, why_students_err, teas_relevance, source) VALUES ('Biology', 'Photosynthesis and cellular respiration', 'Plants only perform photosynthesis (taking in CO2 and releasing O2) and do not perform cellular respiration.', 'Plants perform both photosynthesis AND cellular respiration. Photosynthesis occurs in the chloroplasts and converts CO2 and water into glucose and O2 using light energy. Cellular respiration occurs in the mitochondria and breaks down glucose into CO2, water, and ATP. Plants respire 24 hours a day; they only photosynthesize when light is available.', 'Selecting "plants do not produce CO2" when asked about plant gas exchange.', 'Students are taught a simplified version of the carbon cycle where "plants take in CO2 and animals release CO2," leading them to believe these are exclusive processes rather than complementary ones that occur in all living cells.', 'The TEAS 7 frequently tests the ability to compare and contrast the reactants, products, and locations of photosynthesis and cellular respiration.', 'Urry, L. A., Cain, M. L., Wasserman, S. A., Minorsky, P. V., & Orr, R. B. (2020). Campbell Biology (12th ed.). Pearson.');
INSERT INTO misconceptions (body_system, topic, misconception, correct_explanation, common_wrong_answer, why_students_err, teas_relevance, source) VALUES ('Chemistry', 'Metric system and conversions', 'To convert from milliliters (mL) to liters (L), you multiply by 1,000 because "milli" means a large amount.', '"Milli-" means one-thousandth (1/1000), so there are 1,000 milliliters in one liter. To convert from mL to L, you must divide by 1,000 (or move the decimal point three places to the left). Similarly, to convert from L to mL, you multiply by 1,000 (move the decimal three places to the right).', 'Selecting "5,000 L" when asked to convert 5 mL to liters.', 'Students see the large number 1,000 associated with the conversion and automatically assume multiplication without considering the direction of conversion or the actual meaning of the prefix.', 'Metric conversions are fundamental to TEAS 7 science and math sections, particularly for dosage calculations and laboratory measurements.', 'ATI Testing. (2023). TEAS 7 Study Manual.');
INSERT INTO misconceptions (body_system, topic, misconception, correct_explanation, common_wrong_answer, why_students_err, teas_relevance, source) VALUES ('Anatomy & Physiology', 'Endocrine system - blood glucose regulation', 'Glucagon is released when blood sugar is high to lower blood glucose levels, while insulin is released when blood sugar is low to raise it.', 'This is reversed. Insulin is released by the pancreas (beta cells) when blood glucose is HIGH; it promotes glucose uptake into cells and glycogen storage, thereby LOWERING blood sugar. Glucagon is released by the pancreas (alpha cells) when blood glucose is LOW; it stimulates glycogen breakdown and glucose release, thereby RAISING blood sugar. Think: "Insulin stores, Glucagon pours."', 'Selecting "glucagon" when asked which hormone would be elevated after a high-carbohydrate meal.', 'Students struggle to remember which hormone corresponds to which direction of blood glucose change. The similar-sounding names and the fact that both come from the pancreas contribute to the confusion.', 'Insulin and glucagon are among the most frequently tested hormones on the TEAS 7 due to their critical role in diabetes and metabolic health.', 'Guyton, A. C., & Hall, J. E. (2020). Textbook of Medical Physiology (14th ed.). Elsevier.');
INSERT INTO misconceptions (body_system, topic, misconception, correct_explanation, common_wrong_answer, why_students_err, teas_relevance, source) VALUES ('Anatomy & Physiology', 'Immune system - types of immunity', 'Receiving a vaccine is an example of passive immunity because the vaccine does the work for you and you don''t have to actively fight the disease.', 'A vaccine is an example of ACTIVE artificial immunity. Active immunity occurs when your own immune system produces antibodies in response to an antigen (either natural infection or a vaccine). Passive immunity occurs when you receive pre-formed antibodies from another source (e.g., maternal antibodies crossing the placenta, or receiving antivenom or immune globulin). The key distinction is whether YOUR body makes the antibodies (active) or you RECEIVE them (passive).', 'Classifying a flu vaccine as "passive artificial immunity."', 'Students interpret "active" in everyday language as meaning "physically doing something" or "getting sick," and assume that because a vaccine prevents illness without making you feel sick, it must be passive.', 'Classifying immunity as active vs. passive and natural vs. artificial is a tested TEAS 7 concept with direct relevance to understanding how vaccines and maternal immunity work.', 'Marieb, E. N., & Hoehn, K. (2019). Human Anatomy & Physiology (11th ed.). Pearson.');
INSERT INTO high_yield_qa (body_system, question, answer, explanation) VALUES ('Anatomy & Physiology', 'Which of the following muscle types is striated, multinucleated, and under voluntary control?', 'Skeletal muscle', 'Skeletal muscle is attached to bones, appears striated (striped) under a microscope due to the organized arrangement of contractile proteins, contains multiple nuclei per cell, and is consciously controlled. Cardiac muscle is also striated but is uninucleated (typically), branched, and involuntary. Smooth muscle is non-striated, spindle-shaped, and involuntary.');
INSERT INTO high_yield_qa (body_system, question, answer, explanation) VALUES ('Biology', 'Which organelle is known as the "powerhouse of the cell" and is the primary site of ATP production through aerobic cellular respiration?', 'Mitochondria', 'Mitochondria are double-membraned organelles that convert glucose and oxygen into ATP (adenosine triphosphate) through the processes of the Krebs cycle and electron transport chain. While the Golgi apparatus packages proteins, the endoplasmic reticulum synthesizes them, and ribosomes translate mRNA, only mitochondria perform aerobic cellular respiration to generate the cell''s main energy currency.');
INSERT INTO high_yield_qa (body_system, question, answer, explanation) VALUES ('Biology', 'Which of the following structures is found in all cells, both prokaryotic and eukaryotic?', 'Cell membrane (plasma membrane)', 'The cell membrane is a phospholipid bilayer that surrounds all cells, providing a selective barrier and maintaining homeostasis. It is present in both prokaryotes and eukaryotes. In contrast, a nucleus, mitochondria, and endoplasmic reticulum are membrane-bound organelles found only in eukaryotic cells.');